.\" Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Dr. George Davida and Mark T. Chapman
.\" dct2mstr.1 by Mark T. Chapman
.\"
.TH DCT2MSTR 1L "Aug 17, 1998 (v0.9)" NICETEXT 
.SH NAME
dct2mstr
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dct2mstr 
.RB \-i\ inputFile 
.RB [\-d\ dictionary]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I dct2mstr
formats the sorted type-word list from
.I sortdct
into the proper dictionary database format for the 
.B NICETEXT
system. 
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-i\ inputFile
The name of the file that contains a sorted type-word list that is the output
of 
.I sortdct
.TP
.B \-d\ dictionary
The output dictionary database prefix.  The default is mstr. 
.SH "FILES"
(
.B -d
would replace 
.I mstr
below with a new file prefix.)
.IP mstrdict.dat
Contains one dictionary record per line.  Each record consists of
the type-index, the bit-code, the frequency (optional), and the string
value of the word. 
.IP mstrdict.jmp
A hash-table index that sorts mstrdict.dat records in alphabetical order 
by word.  
.B scramble(1L)
uses this index.
.IP mstrdict.alt
A hash-table index that sorts mstrdict.dat
records in order by type-index, bit-code.
.B nicetext(1L)
uses this index.
.IP mstrtype.dat
Contains one type definition record per line.  The purpose is to normalize
the mstrdict.dat records.  Each record consists of a type-index and a
description.  
.IP mstrtype.jmp 
A hash-table index that sorts the type records by type-index.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
It is strongly suggested that you try the examples in the
.B tutorial 
directory of the
.B NICETEXT
distribution.
For further information, please read the documentation in the 
.B doc 
directory.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.I dct2mstr
returns a non-zero value if it detects any errors.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
bitcp(1L),
dct2mstr(1L),
expgram(1L),
genmodel(1L),
gramtest(1L),
impkimmo(1L),
impmsc(1L),
impwbstr(1L),
listword(1L),
nicetext(1L),
printint(1L),
scramble(1L),
sortdct(1L),
txt2dct(1).

