.\" Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Dr. George Davida and Mark T. Chapman
.\" gramtest.1 by Mark T. Chapman
.\"
.TH GRAMTEST 1L "Aug 17, 1998 (v0.9)" NICETEXT 
.SH NAME
gramtest
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gramtest 
.RB [\-c\ sampleCount]
.RB [\-d\ dictionary] 
.RB [\-g\ grammar]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I gramtest
program tests the syntax of  
.I grammars
in the
.B NICETEXT
system.
It also can generate sample sentence models from the grammar definition. 

The purpose of the tool is to assist in writing grammar style-sources. 
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI \-c\ sampleCount
Generate
.I sampleCount
example sentence models from the grammar.  These are sent to stdout.
.TP
.BI \-d\ dictionary
The prefix for the input dictionary database.  The default is mstr.
The only information loaded from the dictionary is the type-table. 
The purpose is to check the terminals in the grammar to make sure they
are either valid types in the dictionary or punctuation.
.TP
.BI \-g\ grammar
The file name of the grammar definition file.  The default is 
.I grammar.def.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
It is strongly suggested that you try the examples in the
.B tutorial 
directory of the
.B NICETEXT
distribution.
For further information, please read the documentation in the 
.B doc 
directory.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.I gramtest
returns a non-zero value if it detects any errors.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
bitcp(1L),
dct2mstr(1L),
expgram(1L),
genmodel(1L),
impkimmo(1L),
impmsc(1L),
impwbstr(1L),
listword(1L),
nicetext(1L),
printint(1L),
scramble(1L),
sortdct(1L),
txt2dct(1).
