.\" Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Dr. George Davida and Mark T. Chapman
.\" nttpd.1 by Mark T. Chapman
.\"
.TH NTTPD 1L "Aug 17, 1998 (v0.9)" NICETEXT 
.SH NAME
nttpd
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nttpd
.RB [\-b\ dataBaseDir]
.RB [\-t\ tempDir]
.RB [\-p\ port]
.RB [\-w\]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I nttpd
is a program that provides an 
.B EXPERIMENTAL
HTTP/1.0 interface to the 
.B NICETEXT
system.  The idea is to provide a quick and dirty way to do the
.I nicetext(1L)
and 
.I scramble(1L)
transformations through a standard web browser. 

The
.I qstart-nttpd
shell-script may help you with a quick-start of the nttp-daemon.
.SH "WARNING"
The 
.I nttpd
program is 
.B EXPERIMENTAL
- which is another way of saying it is a terrible hack of a program.

Assume that it will be a 
.B resource hog 
and a 
.B security risk 
on your system. 

.B IT IS NOT REPRESENTATIVE OF THE REST OF THE NICETEXT SYSTEM,
which is quite robust.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI \-b\ dataBaseDir
This is the location of the dictionary and style-source files.  
You should point this to the 
.I database
directory of the standard
.B NICETEXT
distribution.

The default is the current working directory.
.TP
.BI \-p\ port
The TCP/IP port number that the server will 
.B listen
for new connections.

The default is 2119.
.TP
.BI \-t\ tempDir
The location where the temporary 
.I nicetext
and
.I scramble'd
text will be placed during processing.  

The default is /tmp.
.TP
.BI -w
Allow connection from any machine on the World-Wide-Web.  Otherwise, 
.I nttpd
only accepts connections from localhost (127.0.0.1).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
bitcp(1L),
dct2mstr(1L),
expgram(1L),
genmodel(1L),
gramtest(1L),
impkimmo(1L),
impmsc(1L),
impwbstr(1L),
listword(1L),
nicetext(1L),
printint(1L),
scramble(1L),
sortdct(1L),
txt2dct(1L).

