.\" Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Dr. George Davida and Mark T. Chapman
.\" scramble.1 by Mark T. Chapman
.\"
.TH SCRAMBLE 1L "Aug 17, 1998 (v0.9)" NICETEXT 
.SH NAME
scramble
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B scramble
.RB \-o\ outputFile
.RB [\-d\ dictionary]
.RB [\-e\]
.RB [\-i\ inputFile] 
.RB [\-s\]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I scramble
converts text-files containing natural-language text into binary files.

If 
.B nicetext(1L)
was the author of the text file and if 
.B scramble 
is using the same dictionary that
.B nicetext
used then 
.B scramble
will recover the original input from
.B nicetext.
Otherwise, 
.B scramble
is a pretty useless program.

Note that although 
.B scramble
is the inverse function of
.B nicetext
,
.B nicetext
is NOT the inverse function of
.B scramble.

Also note that certain modification can be made to the output of 
.B nicetext
that will not effect the ability for
.B scramble
to recover the original input.  For example, punctuation, whitespace, and
uppercase/lowercase conversion will not make any difference.  Furthermore,
words that are not in the dictionary may be freely added to the text without
any problems.  Finally, any text may be appended to the 
.I nicetext.

It is strongly recommended that you go through the tutorial supplied with
the software.  It demonstrates the flexibility in defining dictionaries and
style sources for
.I nicetext
generation. The .ps or .pdf files in the doc directory of the distribution
contain detailed papers on the theory of operation, etc.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI \-d\ dictionary
Use 
.I dictionary
as the prefix to select the dictionary definition database.  

The default 
.I dictionary
is 
.I mstr
.TP
.BI -e
Print undefined words to stderr.   The
.B listword(1L)
program is another way to do this.   
.TP
.BI \-i\ inputFile
Read sample natural-language texts from
.I inputFile.
The default is stdin.
.TP
.BI \-o\ outputFile
Send the scrambled output to this file name.
.TP
.BI -s 
Normally, the software loads all database tables into RAM before processing.
The 
.B -s
option instructs the software to read each record from the database
tables on disk during analysis.  The primary advantage is that the 
software has a significantly
smaller memory footprint.  Another advantage is that you do not need to wait
to load the dictionary into RAM - which can take some time.  The disadvantage
is that processing of large input files is significantly slower.  

Use this option if you are processing a relatively small input file or if you 
get memory errors when running without 
.B -s 
set.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
It is strongly suggested that you try the examples in the
.B tutorial 
directory of the
.B NICETEXT
distribution.
For further information, please read the documentation in the 
.B doc 
directory.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
bitcp(1L),
dct2mstr(1L),
expgram(1L),
genmodel(1L),
gramtest(1L),
impkimmo(1L),
impmsc(1L),
impwbstr(1L),
listword(1L),
nicetext(1L),
nttpd(1L),
printint(1L),
sortdct(1L),
txt2dct(1L).

